BLOCKCHAIN-ASSIGNMENT 1


QUESTION 1: WHAT IS YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF BLOCKCHAIN?
ANSWER: Blockchain is a mixture of technologies- distributed database and cryptography. Distributed database refers to replicating 
same data in different computers over different places. This ensures that the data is there in other computers if one computer 
loses its data or if its data gets tampered. Cryptography ensures the security of data. It’s a method of protecting information 
using codes. The concept of blockchain came into existence when someone with a pseudo name of “Satoshi Nakamoto” published a white
paper named “Bitcoin: a peer to peer electronic cash system”

QUESTION 2: WHAT IS THE CORE PROBLEM BLOCKCHAIN TRYING TO SOLVE?
ANSWER: The major issues with the internet are:
a.	Authenticity
b.	Security
c.	Need of powerful third party for trust
The current day internet is not authentic and is prone to identity thefts or hacking which forbids the users to trust its 
authenticity and this call for an authentic technology-Blockchain. For example, few days ago, twitter accounts of many famous 
people were hacked and money was being demanded by people. The data over the internet is not secure and is often vulnerable. 
Internet doesn’t provide the security for our data.
In the current world scenario, people need powerful third party for trust and they can’t trust people. For example, people trust
Uber way than the cab driver; this signifies the importance of third party in our day to day lives. Blockchain removes this third
party issues and makes people trust the community itself rather than any third party. The necessity which caused the invention 
of blockchain was international banking crisis with collapse of investment in 2008.


QUESTION 3:  WHAT ARE THE FEW FEATURES BLOCKCHAIN WILL GIVE YOU?
ANSWER:  FIVE MAJOR FEATURES PROVIDED BY BLOCKCHAIN ARE:
1.	No hacking
2.	Huge security boost
3.	Verifiable
4.	Data Transparency
5.	Decentralized
6.	Immutable
7.	Tamper proof
8.	Unchangeable

Blockchain makes sure that the data is safe and can’t be hacked at any level, thereby giving a huge security boost. Since data is
stored at any computers, if changes are made in the data of one computer, it can be easily identified by checking the data of
other computers. The fingerprint of data plays a major role in checking if the data is secure or not. Change in fingerprint
indicates that the data has been tampered and the data gets replaced with the data stored in other computers. Since blockchain
removes the need of third parties for trust, this makes data decentralized and trust is built in the community itself.
Hence the data stored in blocks can’t be changed and hence ,is immutable.
 
 
QUESTION 4: WHAT ALL THINGS DOES A BLOCK CONTAIN?
ANSWER:  A Block contains:
1.	Block number
2.	Transaction records
3.	Previous block signature
4.	Mining key


QUESTION 5: HOW IS THE VERIFIABILITY OF BLOCK CHAIN ATTAINED?
ANSWER: Each data has a fingerprint (hash) associated with it. Same data has same fingerprint, if the data is changed even a bit,
 the fingerprint gets changed and if the fingerprint doesn’t match with the fingerprint of data stored in other computers then 
 it indicates that the data has been changes and need to be replaced with the data stored on other computers, hence verifiability
 is attained.
On all the blocks, if the data is added, then older fingerprint is stored plus the new data which generates a new key for the new
block, hence the cycle of fingerprints continues. In order to describe it in an equation, we can write:
A+B=C --- FIRST BLOCK (HERE VALUE OF A IS 0; AS A IS INITIAL DATA AND B IS DATA ADDED)
C+D=F---SECOND BLOCK (OLDER DATA-C +NEW DATA D)
Each time new data generates a new fingerprint which is same for every computer which stores same data for security purposes and
this helps in the verification of data to ensure that data is safe and no new changes have been made
